Now, we'll do the quiz for getting the start and end of the quarter or month.
So this was some sample code that we can take a look at.
Okay. So the question is,
create a feature that indicates the first business day of each month.
So it's very similar to how we do it for the end of the month.
You can take a look at this example for instance, we use pd.date_range,
and the start is going to
be the factors start date and the end is going to be the universe end date.
The frequency is going to be BMS for business month start.
So now, this has a series of the first days of the month.
So now, we want to check if each date is in that set of first days of the month or not.
So all_factors.index.get_level_values(0).isin, so this keyword,
well, let us check, is it in the first day of the month?
First_day_of_month, so this is going to
be a series of Booleans then and we're just going to convert that into integer.
All right. So similarly,
for quarter let's do the create
a column that's checking whether it's the end of the quarter or not.
So summarize before pd.date_range,
start equals factor start date and is equal to universe and date,
frequency is equal to BQ for end of the business quarter.
Now we're going to create the column that checks whether
it is in the end of the quarter or not end of the quarter.
So all_factors is our data frame dot index_get_level_values (0) for the dates.
Check if it is in the last day of the quarter,
and then this is a set of Booleans,
we just going to convert that into integers.
Okay. This was just a double-check.
The column quarter end will be zero if false or one if it is at the end of the quarter.
Similarly, for quarters start we'll do something very similar,
pd.date_range, start is equal to factor_start_date,
end is equal to universe_end_date,
frequency is equal to BQS for business quarter start.
Then now, let's create that column.
All_factors.index.get_level_values(0).isin first day of the quarter,
and now we have a series of Booleans,
we are just going to convert that to integers.
So we can double-check and view all of the factors here and we
also can create a list containing all the features that we're
going to use later to put into the machine learning model.
Notice here we're just excluding
the sector code column because we had already one cut encoded here.
All right. Great. Thanks for watching and please continue on with the lesson.